# ** 1.6 Version Control & Workflow **

# Instructions 
Update this document where indicated (ADF). Replace text inside the brackets with your own information. For example: Course Name should be the name of this course, and not the generic words "Course Name".

*Note:* As you complete each item, also update reference links where indicated below. 

<br>

##  ADF 

* __1.6 Version Control & Workflow__ 
* __Kenneth Binns__
* __21/03/31__

This paper addresses some of the topic matter covered in research and activity this week. Be sure to include reference links below to the research and information you used to complete this assignment.

## Topic: Terminal
Professional developers use Terminal daily. It's essential to understand some fundamental commands to use the application. 

Update the information below to demonstrate your knowledge on this topic.   

*1. Using Terminal, there are essential commands to know.*

List the correct Terminal commands to do the actions listed below. Replace *CMD* with the correct command sequence. You can keep or enhance the brief description. 

*The last bullet provides an example*.

* __clear__ : Clear the Screen 
* __pwd__ : Print the "Working Directory"
* __ls__ : List files and folders
* __ls -la__ : List files and folders, including invisible files
* __ls -lh__ : List all files and folders, in human readable form
* __cd dir/name__ : Change directory
* __cd/__ : Change directory, go to root directory
* __cd ~__ : Change directory and go to user home directory
* __cd ../__ : Change directory, go up one folder level
* __cd../../__ : Change directory, go up two folder levels
* __cd Desktop__ : Change directory to my desktop! 


*2. Using Terminal...*

*Folder Drop:* The folder copied to the device and left you in the file you copied.  

Console is now pointing to the desired folder.

## Topic: Version Control & Git
Version control, also known as revision control, records changes to a file or set of files over time so that you can recall specific versions later. In this class, we are learning Git. Update the information below where indicated.  

*1. There are three types of version control.*

•	Localized version control system
•	Centralized version control system
•	Distributed version control system



*2. Using Terminal, there are also essential Git commands to know.*

List the correct Git commands to do the actions listed below in Terminal. Replace CMD with the correct command and keep or enhance the brief description. *The last bullet provides an example*. 

* _git clone [url]_ : Clone a repository
* _git config --global user.name "Kenneth Binns"_ : Set-up a global user name
* _git config --global user.email "KsBinns@student.fullsail.edu"_ : Set-up a global email address (to match my GitHub account eMail)
* git status : _show modified files in working directory, staged for your next commit_
* _git add [file]_ : Add modified files to the next commit
* _git commit -m " commit your content as a new commit "_ : Make a commit with a new message
* _git log_ : Show all commit history
* *git help*: This command will bring up Git's help screen in Terminal!
    



*3. Connecting to GitHub using Terminal.*
HTTPS is the the correct way to connect to GitHub in this course. Describe how you connect to GitHub from Terminal using this protocol. What steps do you take? 
In side of the fso site under 1.4 Enviroment click the starter link to access git hub. This will take you to git hub class room. from there click on the link of the reposity that it precreated for you.

Specify login and path details then we can have access 
git clone git://user@host/path/to/git/repo.git



*4. Using .gitignore and Why it's Important*  
* What is the purpose of this file?  
* What is the "*.DS_Store*" file and why would you want to ignore it?
* What other file or folder would you want to add to a .gitignore file and why? 


A local.gitignore file is usually placed in the root directory of a project. You can also create a global.gitignore file and any entries in that file will be ignored in all of your Git repositories. For any project, it is therefore important to have a.gitignore file that is complete and accurate

The purpose of gitignore files is to ensure that certain files not tracked by git remain untracked. The purpose of gitignore files is to ensure that certain files not tracked by git remain untracked. Say you run git add . from the root directory of your repo, and you have nothing ignored.

"Desktop Services Store" that contains attributes of a folder and is created every single time a folder is navigated to.

The file is not used by your project
The file is not used by anyone else in your team
The file is generated by another process


<br>

# Reference Links
Replace the example references below with your own links and recommended resources. It is acceptable to provide multiple links for a single topic and to use material provided to you in this class. You are encouraged to link to your own independent research as well. 

Summary:
Professional developer use git commands to main version of the project so in order to use commands we need to learn these commands first then we can use and maintain version of the project.
*Terminal Commands*  
( https://superuser.com/questions/347727/cd-change-directory-to-my-home-directory-on-windows)
( https://www.techuntold.com/change-directory-cmd/#:~:text=%20Change%20Directory%20In%20CMD%20%201%20Change,you%20can%20easily%20change%20the%20directory%2C...%20More%20)  
http://coweb.cc.gatech.edu/ice-gt/339

*Three Types of Version Control* 
https://online.fullsail.edu/class_sections/111470/modules/346574/activities/2071445 
(http://oraclemine.com/version-control-system/)

*Git Commands*  
https://devconnected.com/how-to-git-commit-with-message/
https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-configure-git-username-and-email/
www.toolsqa.com/git/git-status-command-in-git/

*Connecting to GitHub using Terminal*  
https://www.makeuseof.com/tag/mac-terminal-commands-cheat-sheet/

*Using .gitignore and Why it's Important*  
https://education.github.com/git-cheat-sheet-education.pdf
